To a white that the image eventually gets removed.
We need to store it in a more permanent POV on our local device filesystem.
Of course we could also upload it to a server but we already talked about service and so on.
Here I want to focus on all the native device capabilities now to work with our native file system.
Expo has got us covered.
We can use the file system package here.
To do that you install it just like you install the other native packages with Expo install expos dash
file dash system.
So let's do that here your expo install again just a wrapper around NPM installed which you could alternatively
use.
Just need to make sure you're using the right words for your expo SDK wherein you're using and with
that we have that installed.
Now we can move the image after we took it.
Now there are various places in the app where we could do that.
We could do it in the image picker right after we took the image but at this point of time we don't
know yet if we will actually submit the forum if we actually keep that image.
So what if we just took a image here but then we discard this and we go back.
I don't want to have the image moved to a permanent place in that case it should definitely be cleaned
up and that's the default behavior so I don't want to move it.
At this point yet.
Instead I want to move it once we submitted the forum.
Hence we could do it here in the new place screen and a safe place handler.
But then we would add all this filesystem logic to this component which is possible but which adds a
lot of logic into this component which I don't really want to have there.
I want to keep this component relatively lean.
A great place for this however is the action creator.
We already used this in the past for having side effects like sending HP requests.
Now moving a file is basically the same category of thing we're doing instead of sending a request to
a server.
We're moving a file.
Well it's not that different.
So therefore in this file here in the places actions J S file I'll import everything as file system
from Expo file systems from this new package we installed and here at at place I'll now use this alternative
syntax of dispatching or F of having action creator which utilizes redux thunk where we return our internal
function here that receives the dispatch function as an argument so that in this internal function we
can dispatch this action by calling dispatch here and passing our action object and I will add async
here so that we can use async await because we're going to do some asynchronous work here in here.
I now want to move the file right.
So for that I want to use this file system package now moving the file actually involves a couple of
things.
First of all we need to derived a new path of the file and that should of course be a more permanent
directory for Dad we can use file system and there you've got a couple of directories you can access.
You've got the cache directory which is actually the directory where the file is already stored in out
of the box the bundle directory which is not really a good directory for storing files your app uses
either but you also got the document directory.
This is the main directory for any files that your app needs which are guaranteed to survive.
Now when you install your app this folder will all be erased.
So then these files are lost but until then they will persist across app restarts across long pauses
where people haven't used your app.
So here the files will survive.
So the file system document directory is the path I want to move my file to and now there's one important
thing to know your path also needs to include the file name you want to use in the future.
Of course you also get a temporary file name when you take the image but when you move a file this name
is actually not kept out of the box instead it will assume this path here as a name so to say so therefore
this should not just be a pointer at the folder you want to move to file to.
It should instead also include the file name.
Now for that I'm happy with keeping the order generated image name.
Of course you could also now generate your own unique image names here but for that all derive the following
from the image which I got here.
Keep in mind that image here is a path the temporary path to the image.
So here I'll actually use image which is a string and called split on this to split it by slashes because
this path of course involves a couple of slashes in the end and split converts this string into an array
of string segments where each segment is well a segment before and after such a slash in the string
and thereby calling pop.
I get the last segment.
So what this code here does is it takes a look at our image path splits it by slashes which kind of
makes up our full path there and by popping the lost element.
Well what is the last element that is our file name.
Right so if you have a path like some folder slash my image dot Todd Shea pack then what we do with
split is we get an array with some folder and with my image structure pack and by calling Pop on this
we get my image dots.
J pack so that's what we get here.
So this will return us our file name.
This code snippet here and now we can append this here to our path by simply adding it like this.
So now does generates a path which both includes a folder and then the file name.
This is where I want to move to file two and now we can move it by accessing filesystem dot move async.
That's a method which moves a file from a to b.
And it also uses a promise because moving that follow can take a bit longer and therefore it will tell
us when it's done.
Now move async takes the object with two pieces of information from and two which is pretty straightforward
I guess.
So from his image because image is the path to the temporary directory so that's the from thing that's
where the file currently sits and Q of course is our new path like this now is a set does returns a
promise.
So we can await this and that's it.
Now we should wrap this into a try catch block because this could fail because for example there is
no not enough space on the device or somehow we have a permissions error or anything else is wrong.
So we definitely should try catch our filesystem actions because operations on the file system can always
fail.
And there we then might want to do something here.
I'm logging the error and I'm read flowing it but of course you could do other things there as well
you could kind of store it is on your own analytics server whatever you need to do.
Now you ultimately might want to handle this in a component to to show an alert there or not do it but
you would handle it in the same way as you do for example handle H to the p errors which is something
I had a look at India.
TTP module.
So here we're assuming that this will mostly work or that this will always work.
We're moving the file now.
Once it was moved we know it'll be in the new path.
So of course it's the new path which I now want to store here in my place.
Data were in my redux store that's all nice.
This should store our image in a permanent directory.
But what we're not doing is we're not storing our data itself in a permanent place.
We're of course using redux here and that means it's stored in memory but whenever we close and restart
our app all our data will be lost because that's not stored on the device or on a server or in the database
it's just in memory which is active as long as our app runs and thereafter that's cleared.
So as a next step I want to show you how to use sequel light which is a on the wise database both available
on ISIS and Android to store more than just files but to also store where our data like the title and
the image path ends on.